# Incident: 2026-04-08 10:50:15

## Summary
Between the hours of 10:50 and 10:58, connection to the pizza factory was temporarily lost resulting in order failures for all users. This was caused by routine testing for Deliverable 11. Due to Deliverable 8 and 9 being accomplished sufficient logs and metrics were collected to diagnose and solve the issue.

## Detection
This incident was detected by the 'Pizza Failures' alert and an email was sent out to the developer who promptly took action.

## Impact
For 8 minutes on Wednesday, April 8th at 10:50am MST, users were unable to successfully order jwt pizzas. Approximately 9 users were affected by this outage.

## Timeline

- _10:49_ - Connection to Pizza factory fails
- _10:50_ - Alert is sent out
- _10:51_ - Metric charts are read to see what failed
- _10:53_ - Notice Pizza creations are failing
- _10:54_ - Read all logs for internal requests to the factory
- _10:58_ - Notice URL in 500 error responses and follow it
- _11:00_ - Wait for metrics to stabalize

## Responses

After alert was sent out at 10:50, Maguire came online and resolved the issue.

## Root Cause

Connection to the Pizza Factory api failed.

## Resolution

After following the link, a json was displayed saying that the chaos was over. After keeping watch on the metrics to make sure there were no more failed pizza creations, the incident was deemed over.

## Prevention

This type of incident has never occurred before, so no previous preventions have taken place. A possible solution would be to check to make sure a secure pizza factory connection is in place before trying to place an order and exit gracefully if not since pizza factory is out of my control.

## Action Items

Keep watch for this type of incident again and request a better pizza factory api if things do not improve.